Well, I think we have clear what
it is, how it is structured, what
it serves for, etc.
But what I think we are all
thinking, all the students
are thinking, is that it sounds
very good, but I think it would
be hard for us to do one right
now.
I’ll ask you to think about an
example of a customer person or
a target and to do the exercise
of doing so.
Yes, that kind of tools or you put
them into practice or someone gives
you a clear example or hardly
then are applicable.
Therefore, I have prepared an example
based on something that I think
is very current and is the
concern that we have in general
all citizens about the
future of our pensions.
If we put ourselves in the place
of a life insurance company that
has to build a value proposal
and a marketing mix for a market
segment, like it can be that of
workers between 30 and 60 years
old, they are in a time
of huge unrest, as we will
now see by all that is being
seen.
Yes, because of the noise we hear that
you save, because pensions,
etc., those things, right?
And that it’s still time to change
what it does and how it does.
I am talking about 30, 60 years.
That’s why you have less time,
right?
Well, but it still remains.
That is why I am not talking about a
65-year-old worker who is about to retire
or a newly incorporated into the
workplace with 25, who still
sees it a little far away.
I have therefore chosen, after a
selection process, in this process
you commented on, a potentially
viable segment for this
hypothetical life insurance
company.
Workers 30, 60, generally married,
with family, in many cases
with children, right?
Where I think there is a huge opportunity.
Now we will apply the empathy
map to this segment.
I will make a small summary of
each of the areas to then go
to see how this map of empathy
inspires us to build the value
proposal, our positioning,
our selling argumentary
and our marketing
mix.
Yes, because effectively if
we make the map of empathy and put
it in the cage, right?
In the end, it has no significance.
As we said at the beginning, it is
one of the tools, along with the
castover person, that helps us understand
the client very well, but
for what?
So to adapt everything that
comes after, the value proposal,
the positioning, the marketing
mix, etc., to the conclusions
we’re going to draw now,
right?
The Map of Empathy.
That is.
Effectively, these tools do not
only have to be easy and not
complicate our life, but also
have to be practical, because
if not, really, and often I know
that we do them, but then
they do not get all the game
possible.
I have tried in this example
that I am going to share with
you, to really show how, through
the realization of an empathy
map, we can come to
conclusions that might otherwise
have cost us more.
General is okay?
Well, if we see in the picture what
he thinks and feels, in general,
if we analyze that segment of 30
to 60 years, he has a huge
concern, but he is very aware
that he does not have enough
knowledge about personal finances
and that he longs, therefore,
for someone to advise him.
There is a lot of concern
in the segment.
We have not yet gone to the
action of, please inform me, but
there is a huge concern about
I would like to be informed.
Well, and then there are other aspects,
such as ensuring the future of
your family, the short-term, because
when we talk about pensions we are
talking about the medium to long-term,
but then there is another problem.
What if something happens to me in the
short term?
I am the generator of income
from my family.
This block above may have something
to do with when we talk about what
has validated the problem, that
I feel a need, because what you are
counting is that, it feels you
have that problem you don’t know
about finance.
That is the subjective part and
also the desire.
I wish I would like to know more about
finance in an environment where
I think it’s complicated.
If you look at the quadrante of what
you see, you generally see
that savings products are complex,
that there is a huge variety, that
they have a component
of tax knowledge that depends
a lot on people.
This makes you start to
worry too, once you decide to
commit a solution, this becomes
complicated.
A wide and complex offer.
As for what he says and does, generally
what he says is that his future
depends a lot on his savings
ability, for all he’s seeing,
things like that my company
should help me, complaints.
If we see what you hear, because
you hear permanently, in the media,
in social media, in the bar
conversations, even the rum
rum of the pension shell ends,
in the future people 30
or 40 years old will have
very difficult to have retirement
or will have less.
I’m not saying that it’s so or not,
I’m saying that’s what you hear.
That rum rum, as you say, clearly
influences the perception
of this person, a representative
of the 30- or 60-year-
old working class.
If we see your worries, loss
of employment, having an accident,
not getting your pension in
the future, those are
your main concerns.
Sometimes in the conscious and sometimes
in the subconscious.
What needs does he have?
Because it has a need to
protect the family, its family
unity from an economic point of view.
What happens in case of an accident?
For example, because I can
save for the future of my
pension, but if within a month
I have an accident, I not only
have a financial problem,
but could even increase it because
I would need a series of
extraordinary income to
treat the accident I had had.
It will also be a complement
to the pension in the
future.
I don’t know how the public
pension system will work, but
I will have to complement
it as I am supplementing
today through copag other
systems such as the health system.
That is.
Well, this has been in a very
brief way our map of empathy of
a type representative of this
segment of workers 30 to 60
years old.
Of course, what matters is again
with the hat of this insurance company
that has to modify, create or evolve
its value proposal for this segment
is how it acts accordingly, how
this map of empathy, this analysis
I have done with the representative
of the segment or imagining
in the head of the representative
of the segment how
it will help me to continue
taking steps.
Well, then if we see some examples
like we have in the picture on what
you think and feel we say I don’t know
enough of personal finance
and I would like to have a counselor.
I think that’s what we all
think we’ve ever started thinking
we should do something.
Well, this should lead us
to the conclusion that we
have to incorporate within
our portfolio, our value
proposal, the ability to
advise our customer in this
complex product series.
This is very different from when
you sell a home insurance or
a car insurance that you sell by features.
Here it is sold adapting our portfolio
to a specific need and a specific
situation of the customer.
Basically that I totally
agree on what you think people
generally feel when facing decisions
and I also know that if I
knew I would get more yield
to my money, but I
don’t know.
This can block decision
making.
But instead, if, as you say, we
incorporate a certain service of
advice that in home and car insurance
does not make any need, because
probably as we are adapting
our value proposal
from that concern that it
has, we will have a competitive
advantage.
Of course, it’s a lot more for a second
in the client’s place and I understand
perfectly that it’s a lot more powerful.
There are several aspects that lead
us to the conclusion that we should
include and promote and sell in
a inseparable binom along with
life insurance savings, a risk
life insurance, a life insurance
the most traditional of all.
When he says, when our client type
says I need to secure my future
and that of my family and if something
happens to us in the short term
or what happens if I have an accident
or how I protected my family.
When I’m saving through any savings
product, forecast, I’m accumulating
wealth, but if something
happens to me in the short term,
I’ve not accumulated
enough wealth.
That to greatly alleviate that
concern of our client type,
we must incorporate life
at risk and argue it that way.
Another example would be when we
know that our potential
customer is, our type customer
is constantly hearing that rum
rum you commented on.
I think that should be part
of our business argumentary
of our savings portfolio.
You have to do this because there
is actually a risk that in the future
pensions will not maintain
at least the current level.
This adaptation, for example, this example
you put is not a topic of the proposal
of values, yes, it is a more tactical
topic of the commercial argumentary,
of the messages, of the commercial
argumentary with which we will
impact you.
Because if you use this, you
enter like a knife, because you
know that the customer is actually
hearing this, then you empathize
very quickly with him.
Since I know you are concerned about
this issue, I go to the solution.
Exactly, as we see the empathy
map, it not only serves us to
see realities that influence
our portfolio, our marketing
mix, but even our commercial
approach too.
And finally, an important
example is that as we see also
in what our customer sees
is that the taxation of savings
is favorable, but it is complex,
depends much on the limits
of reduction and tax deduction
of our client.
Finally, it is a complex issue that
is not for everyone the same and
therefore this forces us to have within
our commercial approach, unlike other
branches of insurance, a process
of 360-degree analysis, global
analysis of our client, because
our final proposal will depend
much on the concrete situation
of each individual, no longer
of each segment, but even
of each individual.
Well, because this has been four
examples of acting accordingly
following this empathy map analysis
we have done.
I have to tell you that this is the
first time in my life that I
understand the map of empathy,
because until now I had not understood it.
I had studied the subject, but
had never seen a clear example
of how it was used.
I think that has happened to a
lot of people and I think it
is to be grateful because seeing
the examples and seeing how it is
used we understand how practical
it is and how we can use the
information we obtain through this
so orderly analysis to then
adapt the value proposal, the
marketing mix and others.
That is what I want.
Many thanks.
Thanks to you.